feat(Post): add new post about Varnish-Operator (#397)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator.md

One solution would be to directly call the ingress of the applications, staying inside the cluster but without the benefit of caching as it is handled by the CDN. This would lead to unsustainable increase in cpu usage, and probably very little gain in terms of response time.

A better solution for us would be to have the caching of CDN inside the cluster. This would enable us to have fast response time and little to no increase in cpu usage.

# Enter Varnish-Operator

We tested the project [IBM/Varnish-Operator](https://github.com/IBM/varnish-operator). This project allows us to create Custom Resources for Kubernetes handled by the Varnish-Operator. This object is called a VarnishCluster, the configuration is pretty simple to get started. This enables us to have a caching layer, between the Ingress-Controller and the Application.
<center><img alt="varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image2.png"></center>

<br>

VarnishCluster also uses Varnish Configuration Language (VCL) which we are pretty familiar with since we use Varnish Onprem since at least 2015, and developers use it regularly as Fastly uses it as well.

> On an application that is not fully cacheable by simply putting VarnishCluster in front we almost divided by two the average response time.It ain't surprise as inter api calls used to look like the red arrow when application A called application B but now it looks like the blue arrow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On an application that is not fully cacheable by simply putting VarnishCluster in front we almost divided by two the average response time. It is not a surprise as inter api calls used to look like the red arrow when application A called application B but now it looks like the blue arrow.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Microservice architecture and caching layer"
description: "We needed to optimize our plateforme for inter-api calls"
author: arthurzinck
tags: [onprem, cloud, cdn, varnish, aws, cloud, fastly, varnish-operator, cloudfront, alb]
color: rgb(251,87,66)
thumbnail: "/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/main.png"
language: en
comments: true
excerpt: "At Bedrock, we have a CDN before our applications. Those CDN serves us well when most calls come from end-user but what about inter-api calls ?"
---

At Bedrock we protect our applications with a Cloudfront or Fastly CDN. This layer ensures our applications are protected from potential Denial of Service Attack and it provides a layer of cache. No need to go down to the app for an easily cacheable response.

<center><img alt="before the project" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image0.png"></center>

<br>

> At least that is what we thought in 2018 when we were migrating from on premise to the Cloud. At that time on premise we had a Varnish instance caching everything at the border of our infrastructure. All the applications were running either on virtual machines or on bare metal. Those applications called each other through Varnish. This is ideal if applications are mostly called from the outside world. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At least that is what we thought in 2018 when we were migrating from on premise to the Cloud.
At that time on premise we had a Varnish instance caching everything at the border of our infrastructure. All the applications were running either on virtual machines or on bare metal. Those applications called each other through Varnish. This is ideal if applications are mostly called from the outside world. 
```

Author: les 's sont du parler Oral donc j'évite :)

Author: sinon ya @GuyMauve qui vient me chercher des noises

---
layout: post

> title: "Microservice architecture and caching layer"

Reviewer 3: Ce titre me semble moins descriptif qu'il ne pourrait l'être 🤔 
Je n'ai pas encore lu l'article mais, pour attirer mon attention et me donner envie de le lire, il faudrait que le titre donne plus d'infos sur ce que l'article va me permettre de découvrir ;-)

Peut-être : "Kubernetes" ? "Varnish" ? "Operator" ? Ou un ou deux mots sur ce que ça apporte à notre plateforme et à nos utilisateurs ?

Author: `How Micro-Services changed our caching architecture` wdyt ?

> description: "We needed to optimize our plateforme for inter-api calls"

Reviewer 3: Ca peut être plus descriptif aussi ;-)
Au moins une phrase pour noter "… donc, nous avons inséré un proxy-cache, Varnish, dans nos clusters Kubernetes" (je n'ai pas encore lu la suite de l'article, donc pas 100% sûr que ça soit ce que tu voulais dire)

Author: `Varnish Operator is a good solution to problem caused by Microservices architecture in Kubernetes environment. Especially where most of the traffic comes from other API rather than from an end-user.`

author: arthurzinck
tags: [onprem, cloud, cdn, varnish, aws, cloud, fastly, varnish-operator, cloudfront, alb]
color: rgb(251,87,66)
thumbnail: "/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/main.png"
language: en
comments: true
excerpt: "At Bedrock, we have a CDN before our applications. Those CDN serves us well when most calls come from end-user but what about inter-api calls ?"
---

> At Bedrock we protect our applications with a Cloudfront or Fastly CDN. This layer ensures our applications are protected from potential Denial of Service Attack and it provides a layer of cache. No need to go down to the app for an easily cacheable response.

Reviewer 3: Les deux premières phrases parlent de "protection", laissant penser qu'on utilise un CDN comme protection contre les DDOS (d'ailleurs, tu parles de DOS et pas de DDOS ; est-ce voulu ?). Mais la dernière phrase parle de mise en cache.
=> Clarifier qu'on utilise des CDN pour **deux** objectifs ?

Author: `At Bedrock we use Cloudfront or Fastly for two different reason. To protect our applications from potential Distributed Denial of Service Attack. And to provides a layer of cache in front of our applications. No need to go down to the app for an easily cacheable response.` is it clearer ?

> <center><img alt="before the project" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image0.png"></center>

Reviewer 3: En regardant ce schéma, je me dis que, si la suite va parler de Kubernetes, il pourrait être intéressant de matérialiser le cluster sur le schéma ?

<br>

At least that is what we thought in 2018 when we were migrating from on premise to the Cloud. 

> At that time on premise we had a Varnish instance caching everything at the border of our infrastructure. All the applications were running either on virtual machines or on bare metal. Those applications called each other through Varnish. This is ideal if applications are mostly called from the outside world. 

Reviewer 3: Les deux dernières phrases, telles que je les comprends :

 * "les applis se parlent via varnish" (= entre elles, "en interne")
 * "c'est idéal si les applis sont appelées depuis l'extérieur"

Du coup, je me dis que ces deux phrases sont un peu en opposition, non ?

Aussi : pourquoi est-ce que "c'est idéal" ? Quel bénéfice est-ce que ça apporte ? Et avoir Varnish qui cache, c'était possible uniquement parce qu'il n'y avait pas (ou peu) de personnalisation sur nos services ?

Author: C'est vrai que le peu de personnalisation jouait mais c'est aussi que tout était caché a un niveau qui n'etait pas tres couteux non plus. j'ai modifié un peu les phrases c'est peut etre plus clair

> <center><img alt="historically before 2018" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image2.png"></center>

Reviewer 3: Le paragraphe d'avant et le `alt` ici disent "avant 2018" et "on-prem".
Pourquoi le schéma montre un ALB et un Ingress, alors ?

Si le schéma correspond à du texte qui vient plus bas, je m'attendrais à ce qu'il soit placé après une phrase qui le dise (mais c'est peut-être moi qui réfléchi "texte en premier")

<br>

> In 2022, we think otherwise. We have now a Kops managed Kubernetes cluster running ec2 spot instances in private subnets at AWS. As we migrated to the cloud we also embarked on the journey of splitting monolith into smaller more manageable microservices. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In 2023, we think otherwise. We have now a Kops managed Kubernetes cluster running EC2 spot instances in private subnets at AWS. As we migrated to the cloud we also embarked on the journey of splitting monolith into smaller more manageable microservices. 
```

> In 2022, we think otherwise. We have now a Kops managed Kubernetes cluster running ec2 spot instances in private subnets at AWS. As we migrated to the cloud we also embarked on the journey of splitting monolith into smaller more manageable microservices. 

Reviewer 3: Le move to the cloud et le découpage monolithe / microservices sont décorrélés, de mon point de vue. D'ailleurs, le découpage en microservices avait commencé (et était évoqué en public, si j'ai bonne mémoire) avant le début de la migration.

With less monoliths the Bedrock product is more resilient and easier to scale but it changes the topologies of network calls. Before there were far more calls coming from the internet from end-users browsers. Now with the new architecture coming into place inter-app requests have increased. 

> One solution would be to directly call the ingress of the applications, staying inside the cluster but without the benefit of caching as it is handled by the CDN. This would lead to unsustainable increase in cpu usage, and probably very little gain in terms of response time.

Reviewer 3: "one solution" à quelle problème ?

Au-dessus, on dit "les appels inter-app ont augmenté", d'accord ; mais est-ce un problème en soit ? Pourquoi ?

Aussi :

 * Pourquoi ne pas "sortir du cluster" et appeler les applis via leur CDN ? On bénéficierait du cache, ainsi. D'ailleurs, c'est l'approche "naive", ce qu'on a fait quand on a commencé notre migration vers le cloud.
 * Appeler les applis "en interne", ça mène à une augmentation de la conso CPU, certes ; et je pense que tu peux expliciter que ce n'est pas que sur le compute : c'est encore plus une source de douleur sur les dépendances (comme les bases de données) qui n'auto-scalent pas !

Je me demande si un schéma qui montre "par où passe une requête" n'aiderait pas à la compréhension du problème / besoin auquel la suite de l'article va répondre ?

> A better solution for us would be to have the caching of CDN inside the cluster. This would enable us to have fast response time and little to no increase in cpu usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A better solution for us would be to have the caching of CDN inside the cluster. This would allow us to have fast response time and little to no increase in CPU usage.
```

Author: avoid Allow to much time

# Enter Varnish-Operator

> We tested the project [IBM/Varnish-Operator](https://github.com/IBM/varnish-operator). This project allows us to create Custom Resources for Kubernetes handled by the Varnish-Operator. This object is called a VarnishCluster, the configuration is pretty simple to get started. This enables us to have a caching layer, between the Ingress-Controller and the Application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We tested the project [IBM/Varnish-Operator](https://github.com/IBM/varnish-operator).  
This project creates Custom Resources for Kubernetes handled by the Varnish-Operator. This object is called a VarnishCluster, the configuration is pretty simple to get started. 
This allows us to have a caching layer, between the Ingress-Controller and the Application.
```

> <center><img alt="varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image1.png"></center>

Reviewer 3: Je retoucherais bien un ou deux trucs sur ce schéma ?

Il parle de "on prem" (alors que nos clusters Kubernetes sont dans le cloud), il ne parle pas de Kubernetes, il ne parle pas d'Ingress (alors que le texte au-dessus en parle), il parle de HAProxy alors que l'article n'en parle pas plus haut. Il n'y a plus d'ALB ? Et, dans le texte, pourquoi on parle d'Ingress Controller alors qu'on parlait seulement d'Ingress jusqu'à présent ?

Aussi : 

 * les flèches vertes ne correspondent à aucun élément de texte et j'ai du mal à voir "au premier coup d'oeil" à quoi elles correspondent
 * le `alt` pourrait être complété

<br>

> VarnishCluster also uses Varnish Configuration Language (VCL) which we are pretty familiar with since we use Varnish Onprem since at least 2015, and developers use it regularly as Fastly uses it as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VarnishCluster also uses Varnish Configuration Language (VCL) which we are pretty familiar with since we use Varnish Onprem since 2015, and developers use it regularly to configure Fastly distributions.
```
You can't translate "au moins depuis 2015" to "since at least 2015", it doesn't mean anything.
You can say "since 2015" or "have used Varnish Onprem for at least 7 years".

Reviewer 3: "as Fastly uses it" -> j'aimerais un verbe plus explicite que "use", ici, qui est déjà _utilisé_ plusieurs fois dans la phrase… peut-être un truc du style "nous écrivons des configurations avancées en VCL pour le CDN Fastly"

> On an application that is not fully cacheable by simply putting VarnishCluster in front we almost divided by two the average response time. It is not a surprise as inter api calls used to look like the following graph

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By adding cache using VarnishCluster to an application that is not fully cacheable, we almost divided it's average response time by two.  
It is not a surprise as inter API calls used to look like the following graph.
```

Reviewer 3: Je pense qu'il est bon d'expliquer "en texte" ce que tu montres "en schéma" : certaines personnes comrennent mieux le texte que les schémas (et inversement).

Sur les flèches : une bonne pratique est de faire des flèches de couleurs différentes **et de forme différente** (par exemple, une flèche en rouge trait plein et une flèche en bleu trait pointillé), pour répondre à différents types de handicaps visuels.

Reviewer 3: Aussi, vu le nombre de flcèches sur le schéma : les numéroter, pour indiquer un "ordre" de requêtes ?

<center><img alt="before-after-varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image3.png"></center>

<br>

> After we added VarnishCluster we changed parameters in the application so that they call other app inside the clu like the following graph,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We changed parameters in the application after adding VarnishCluster so that it calls other app inside the clu like the following graph:
```

Reviewer 3: "inside the clu" -> mot non terminé.

+ même remarques sur les flèches.

<center><img alt="before-after-varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image4.png"></center>

<br>
# A few details

> Before I wrapped this up, a few details on the implementations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before I wrap this up, here are a few details about the implementations.
```
At this point of the blog post, you didn't wrap it up yet. Did you?

Author: Almost this is a transition :+1:

> As you will be able to read in the Varnish documentation : 

Reviewer 3: Ajouter un lien vers la page de doc en question ?

> "By default Varnish will use 100 megabytes of malloc(3) storage for caching objects, if you want to cache more than that, you should look at the `-s` argument."
So if you give many Gigs of memory to your Varnish container it won’t be attributed to the Varnish process. You can set it with the argument `-s storage=malloc,<Number>`.

> As we use only spot nodes in AWS that can be taken back by AWS at any moment with only 2 minutes notice. We want to give more resilience to our Varnish Clusters pod as cache is stored in ram memory. You lose all your cache at each restart of the Varnish Container. We added podAntiAffinity between application pods and VarnishClusters’ to avoid scheduling those pods on the same node and be vulnerable to reclaims.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we use only Spot nodes that can be terminated back by AWS at any moment within only 2 minute, we want to give more resilience to our Varnish Clusters pod as cache is stored in ram memory.  
You lose all your cache at each restart of the Varnish Container. We added podAntiAffinity between application pods and VarnishClusters’ to avoid scheduling those pods on the same node and be vulnerable to reclaims.
```

Reviewer 3: "taken back", "terminated back" => le terme AWS est "reclaim"
"ram memory" -> répétition de "memory", "RAM" signifie déjà "Random Access Memory" ;-)

Reviewer 3: J'ai du mal à voir pourquoi on a mis une anti-affinité entre les pods de varnish et ceux de notre application. Pourquoi est-ce que ça aide à la résilience ?

J'aurais compris une anti-affinité entre Varnish et Varnish, pour forcer un étalement du cache sur de nombreux noeuds et donc réduire le pourcentage de cache total perdu quand un noeud est reclaim.

Reviewer 3: Dans une section qui s'appelle "détails", on pourrait donner un bout de code ?

We added a podDisruptionBudget to avoid losing all our pods at the same time. We also customized the VCL a bit to make Varnish serve stale content in case our application is unreachable.

We added a Prometheus Service Monitor to make sure all Varnish metrics would be scraped by [Victoria Metrics](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/09/06/monitoring-at-scale-with-victoriametrics.html).

# In the Future

> In next versions we would like to add the possibility of configuring the PriorityClass of VarnishClusters pod. PriorityClasses are used to order workloads priority. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In next versions we would like to add the possibility to configure the PriorityClass of VarnishClusters pod. PriorityClasses are used to order workloads priority.  
```
You are not configuring the PriorityClass right now, using -ing is incorrect in this sentence.

# Enter Varnish-Operator

We tested the project [IBM/Varnish-Operator](https://github.com/IBM/varnish-operator). This project allows us to create Custom Resources for Kubernetes handled by the Varnish-Operator. This object is called a VarnishCluster, the configuration is pretty simple to get started. This enables us to have a caching layer, between the Ingress-Controller and the Application.
<center><img alt="varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image1.png"></center>

<br>

VarnishCluster also uses Varnish Configuration Language (VCL) which we are pretty familiar with since we use Varnish Onprem since at least 2015, and developers use it regularly as Fastly uses it as well.

On an application that is not fully cacheable by simply putting VarnishCluster in front we almost divided by two the average response time. It is not a surprise as inter api calls used to look like the following graph
<center><img alt="before-after-varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image3.png"></center>

<br>
After we added VarnishCluster we changed parameters in the application so that they call other app inside the clu like the following graph,

> <center><img alt="before-after-varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image4.png"></center>

Reviewer 3: si ce schéma montre "after", comme le dit le texte qui le précéde, pourquoi est-ce que son `alt` contient "before" ?

<br>
# A few details

Before I wrapped this up, a few details on the implementations.

As you will be able to read in the Varnish documentation : 
> "By default Varnish will use 100 megabytes of malloc(3) storage for caching objects, if you want to cache more than that, you should look at the `-s` argument."
So if you give many Gigs of memory to your Varnish container it won’t be attributed to the Varnish process. You can set it with the argument `-s storage=malloc,<Number>`.

As we use only spot nodes in AWS that can be taken back by AWS at any moment with only 2 minutes notice. We want to give more resilience to our Varnish Clusters pod as cache is stored in ram memory. You lose all your cache at each restart of the Varnish Container. We added podAntiAffinity between application pods and VarnishClusters’ to avoid scheduling those pods on the same node and be vulnerable to reclaims.

> We added a podDisruptionBudget to avoid losing all our pods at the same time. We also customized the VCL a bit to make Varnish serve stale content in case our application is unreachable.

Reviewer 3: Dans une section qui s'appelle "details", on pourrait donner un bout de code ?

> We added a Prometheus Service Monitor to make sure all Varnish metrics would be scraped by [Victoria Metrics](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/09/06/monitoring-at-scale-with-victoriametrics.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We also added a Prometheus Service Monitor to make sure all Varnish metrics would be scraped by [Victoria Metrics](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/09/06/monitoring-at-scale-with-victoriametrics.html).
```

# In the Future

In next versions we would like to add the possibility of configuring the PriorityClass of VarnishClusters pod. PriorityClasses are used to order workloads priority. 
In a context of scaling and of scarcity of resources, the scheduler will evict pods of lower priority to make room for the pod it is trying to schedule.

> For now our VarnishClusters’ pods has the PriorityClass by default but it is more critical than any other applications as it holds a cache in its Ram memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For now our VarnishCluster's pods have the PriorityClass by default but it is more critical than any other applications as it holds a cache in its Ram memory.
```
It's not a single pod, so you need to write "have".

> Also we do not have logs of Varnish we would like to be able to stream Varnishlog content into [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/). This would be super useful to debug and to investigate if we ever encounter bugs or unexpected behaviors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also we don't have logs of Varnish. We would like to be able to stream Varnishlog content into [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/).  
This would be super useful to debug and to investigate if we ever encounter bugs or unexpected behaviors.
```

Reviewer 3: Pas de logs pour un élément critique de notre infra ? Ca me choque 😱

> # Conclusion

Reviewer 3: À mes yeux, il manque à cette conclusion un super primordial : une **démonstration** de ce que tout ça nous a apporté, une **preuve** que nous y avons gagné.

Par exemple : un graphe avec des temps de réponse avant / après. Ou, puisque tu parles plusieurs fois de consommation CPU, un graphe avec consommation CPU avant / après.

> With the generalisation of mircoservices, Bedrock needed to rethink its architecture to optimize not only for browser to api services calls but also for more api to api usage. By setting VarnishCluster in front of our applications and calling them directly from inside the cluster we improved significantly the Bedrock product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the generalisation of microservices, Bedrock needed to rethink it's architecture to optimize not only for browser to API services calls but also for more API to API usage. By adding VarnishCluster in front of our applications and calling them directly from inside the cluster we improved significantly the Bedrock product.
```

Author: Good catch on `microservices` but it its architecture not it is architecture :+1:

> The github project is still young and lacks important features, we hope with this article to help draw attention to this project and potential 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Github project is still young and lacks important features, we hope with this article to help draw attention to this project and potential 
```

> The github project is still young and lacks important features, we hope with this article to help draw attention to this project and potential 

Reviewer 3: "the github project", il m'a fallu un moment avant de voir à quoi tu faisais allusion, je me suis même demandé si on avait open-sourcé un truc.
=> remettre un lien ?

> contributors. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

---
layout: post
title: "How Micro-Services changed our caching architecture"
description: "Varnish Operator is a good solution to problem caused by Microservices architecture in Kubernetes environment. Especially where most of the traffic comes from other API rather than from an end-user."
author: arthurzinck
category:
tags: [on-premise, cloud, cdn, varnish, aws, cloud, fastly, varnish-operator, cloudfront, alb]
color: rgb(0, 150, 255)
thumbnail: "/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/main.png"
feature-img:
language: en
comments: true
---

> At Bedrock we use Cloudfront or Fastly for two different reason. To protect our applications from potential Distributed Denial of Service Attack. And to provides a layer of cache in front of our applications. No need to go down to the app for an easily cacheable response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Bedrock we use Cloudfront or Fastly for two different reason. To protect our applications from potential Distributed Denial of Service Attack and to provides a layer of cache in front of our applications. No need to go down to the app for an easily cacheable response.
```

<center><img alt="before the project" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image0.png"></center>

<br>

At least that is what we thought in 2018 when we were migrating from on premise to the Cloud.

> At that time we had a Varnish instance caching everything at the border  of our on premise infrastructure. All the applications were running either on virtual machines or on bare metal servers. Those applications were mostly called by the end-user browser. Whenever an application called another application it did it through Varnish. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At that time we had a Varnish instance caching everything at the border  of our on premise infrastructure. All the applications were running either on virtual machines or on bare metal servers. Those applications were mostly called by the end-user's browser. Whenever an application called another application it did it through Varnish. 
```

> This is ideal if applications are mostly called from the outside world. The Varnish instance has all it can in cache, and it does not cost too much time as it was in the same Data Center. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is ideal if applications are mostly called from the outside world. The Varnish instance caches all cacheable content, and it does not cost too much time as it was in the same Data Center. 
```

<center><img alt="historically before 2018" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image2.png"></center>

<br>
In 2023, we think otherwise. We have now a [KOps](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/) managed Kubernetes cluster running EC2 spot instances in private subnets at AWS. As we migrated to the cloud we also embarked on the journey of splitting monolith into smaller more manageable microservices.

> With less monoliths the Bedrock product is more resilient and easier to scale but it changes the topologies of network calls. Before there were far more calls coming from the internet from end-users browsers. Now with the new architecture coming into place inter-app requests have increased.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With less monoliths the Bedrock product is more resilient and easier to scale but it changes the topologies of network calls. Before there were far more calls coming from the internet from end-users browsers. Now with the new architecture coming into place inter-app requests have increased.
```
> "from the internet from end-users browsers"
At lot of from ;)

One solution would be to directly call the ingress of the applications, staying inside the cluster but without the benefit of caching as it is handled by the CDN. This would lead to unsustainable increase in CPU usage, and probably very little gain in terms of response time.

> A better solution for us would be to have the caching of CDN inside the cluster. This would enable us to have fast response time and little to no increase in CPU usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A better solution for us would be to have the caching of CDN inside the cluster. This would enable us to have fast response time and little to no increase in CPU usage.
```
> "enable us"

This still feel wrong to me.

Author: but it ain't :)

# Enter Varnish-Operator

> We tested the project [IBM/Varnish-Operator](https://github.com/IBM/varnish-operator). This project allows us to create Custom Resources for Kubernetes handled by the Varnish-Operator. This object is called a VarnishCluster, the configuration is pretty simple to get started. This enables us to have a caching layer, between the Ingress-Controller and the Application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We tested the project [IBM/Varnish-Operator](https://github.com/IBM/varnish-operator). This project allows us to create Custom Resources for Kubernetes handled by the Varnish-Operator. This object is called a VarnishCluster, the configuration is pretty simple to get started. This enables us to have a caching layer, between the Ingress-Controller and the Application.
```
> "enables us"

same shit

<center><img alt="varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image1.png"></center>

<br>

VarnishCluster also uses Varnish Configuration Language (VCL) which we are pretty familiar with since we use Varnish On-Premise since 2015, and developers use it regularly to configure Fastly distribution.

> By adding cache using VarnishCluster to an application that is not fully cacheable, we almost divided it's average response time by two. It is not a surprise as inter api calls used to look like the following graph:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By adding cache using VarnishCluster to an application that is not fully cacheable, we almost divided it's average response time by two. It is not a surprise as inter API calls used to look like the following graph:
```

<center><img alt="before-after-varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image3.png"></center>

<br>

We changed parameters in the application after adding VarnishCluster so that it calls other app inside the cluster like in the following graph:
<center><img alt="before-after-varnishcluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image4.png"></center>

<br>

# A few details

Before I wrap this up, here are a few details about the implementations.

As you will be able to read in the Varnish documentation: 
> "By default Varnish will use 100 megabytes of malloc(3) storage for caching objects, if you want to cache more than that, you should look at the `-s` argument."

So if you give many Gigs of memory to your Varnish container it won’t be attributed to the Varnish process. You can set it with the argument `-s storage=malloc,<Number>`.

As we use only Spot nodes that can be terminated by AWS at any moment with only 2 minutes notice, we want to give more resilience to our Varnish Clusters pod as cache is stored in RAM memory.

> You lose all your cache at each restart of the Varnish Container. We added [podAntiAffinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity) between application pods and VarnishClusters’ to avoid scheduling those pods on the same node and be vulnerable to reclaims.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You lose all your cache at each restart of the Varnish Container.  
We added [podAntiAffinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity) between application pods and VarnishClusters’ to avoid scheduling those pods on the same node and be vulnerable to reclaims.
```
I would make a list of the things you added to avoid repeting "We added" in the following lines.
This will also make this part more readable:

We added:
- podAntiAffinity between app pods and ...
- podDisruptionBudget to avoid losing ...
- Prometheus Service Monitor to make sure

We added a [podDisruptionBudget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/) to avoid losing all our pods at the same time. We also customized the VCL a bit to make Varnish serve stale content in case our application is unreachable.

We also added a Prometheus Service Monitor to make sure all Varnish metrics would be scraped by [Victoria Metrics](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/09/06/monitoring-at-scale-with-victoriametrics.html).

# In the Future

> In next versions we would like to add the possibility to configure [PriorityClass](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/#priorityclass) of VarnishClusters pod. PriorityClasses are used to order workloads priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In next versions we would like to add the possibility to configure [PriorityClass](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/#priorityclass) of VarnishClusters pod.  
PriorityClasses are used to order workloads priority.
```

In a context of scaling and of scarcity of resources, the scheduler will evict pods of lower priority to make room for the pod it is trying to schedule.

> For now our VarnishCluster's pods have the PriorityClass by default but it is more critical than any other applications as it holds a cache in its Ram memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For now our VarnishCluster's pods have the PriorityClass by default but it is more critical than any other applications as it holds a cache in its memory.
```
RAM means Random Access Memory, you are repeating yourself here.

Also we do not have logs of Varnish. We would like to be able to stream VarnishLog content into [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/). This would be super useful to debug and to investigate if we ever encounter bugs or unexpected behaviors.

# Conclusion
<center><img alt="Average-Response time after apps call through VarnishCluster" src="/images/posts/2022-12-23-varnish-operator/image5.png"></center>

<br>

> With the generalization of microservices, Bedrock needed to rethink its architecture to optimize not only for browser to api services calls but also for more API to API usage. By adding VarnishCluster in front of our applications and calling them directly from inside the cluster we improved significantly the Bedrock product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the generalization of microservices, Bedrock needed to rethink its architecture to optimize not only for browser to API calls but also for more API to API usage. By adding VarnishCluster in front of our applications and calling them directly from inside the cluster we improved significantly the Bedrock product.
```
